in 2015 two astronauts will embark on a
year-long mission to the International
Space Station so we thought we'd take a
look at the top five effects of
long-term exposure to space on the human
body getting around in microgravity
requires practically no physical
exertion inhabitants of the space
station can get around by gently pushing
a wall with just one finger and thus
their muscles begin to deteriorate
quickly in space the body begins to
excrete calcium and phosphorous
resulting in a rapid loss of bone
density for every month spent on the ISS
inhabitants experience a 2% loss in bone
density Effects of this bone density
loss our increased risk of fractures and
the possibility of painful urinary
stones without gravity astronauts bodies
will experience a fluid shift they will
become top-heavy and suffer from bird
legs and moon face side effects of this
redistribution of bodily fluids include
headaches stuffy nose puffy face and
disorientation which can lead to injury
spending a year in space
is going to be psychologically
challenging for the astronauts they face
long periods of isolation interpersonal
conflicts with co-workers lack of
personal space
and limited personal hygiene these
factors combined with a lack of 24-hour
rhythm can lead to sleeplessness
depression and even psychosis number one
on our list is the serious and possibly
deadly effects of space radiation
depending on the position of the ISS in
just one week astronauts can be exposed
up to the equivalent of one year's
exposure on earth the more serious
effects of space radiation include
cataracts can
sterility DNA mutations central nervous
system damage and even death
most of the effects of space on the
human body are curable but some will
take years of intensive therapy before
they return to pre-flight state